Object Oriented programming can be a bit confusing at times as there are concepts with very minute differences . The worst thing is that the more you read,the more you get confused as 100 people have 100 interpretation of same concepts.

When you can verify something physically and explain it in simplest possible explanation , that concept can be said to be cleared.

Coming back to question , Objects and Instances are almost similar and are often used interchangeably but with a small difference.

Lets take a Story . Suppose You are God and You are given the task to make a new species called Males . So you start designing your species . All the males will have hands , legs , eyes , nose etc. These features/state can be called as attributes / properties . All males can run , walk , talk eat etc. These are the behaviours/functions of males and can be called as Methods.

Once you have designed the properties and behaviours of your new species , Your class is ready . So basically Class is a design on paper ( a blueprint) that how the males would look and how would they behave.

Males don’t exist in reality so far , they are just a concept.

Now God started making Males in reality (Physical manifestation) . So he started looking at the blue print and created a male . When he created a male in reality , that male needs to have a space to live , so a space on Earth is reserved for that male to live.

Here the act of making physical manifestation , the act of making a male is creating objects from the class . The act of giving the space to male is creating a memory for the object.

Now there is a small problem encountered by god , he can create n numbers of males all identical and give them space on earth to live but how can you identify and differentiate them.

What if the God wants one of those males to do something . How will he command ? How will he refer him ?

Here comes the concept of Instances . He took one of the males and gave him a name Nobita . So now that object (male) has a reference called Nobita . The location given to him to live can be said as Nobita’s location.

Object is a generic term , it is physically present but remains undiferrentiated . Instance is something that gives them a separate identity.